so I know you've said you talked with
President Trump about innovation
generally did you talk with him about
vaccines when you met with him
absolutely I talked about that during
the next four years we hope to get an
HIV vaccine that that's been harder than
people expected I talked about polio
we're like getting the vaccine for polio
out to so many children we find
ourselves with less than 50 cases last
year so this year with luck we'll see
the last cases on then three years later
is when they certify that you really
have done the surveillance and the
disease really is gone and so investing
in innovation which was my broad theme
talking to him that included health
vaccines that included energy and
education the idea that some of these
investments that government makes create
the platform that then the private
sector can can take it from there the
the analogies to things like the
moonshot were you know what I said okay
you know you can get behind an
innovation agenda I don't know if that
will happen but I I wanted to to get
that in front of him did he seem
receptive well he he's met with all
sorts of different groups about a lot of
different things but yes he took the
time he listened and he wanted to
understand about some of the different
diseases and the the strength of the
American role in doing all these things
I went through the economics of how
vaccines even though the cost of making
the first one the Rd is very high that
the marginal cost to making these things
brings them down to under $1 eventually
as you you get the volume up Trump
himself has been openly skeptical about
vaccines in the connection to autism
which I know is something that you've
disputed how do you get that across to
him and what is that what are the
repercussions of Trump's presidency if
you look at the impact on vaccines in
the US and the implications for global
health
well vaccines are miracle they're
fantastic anything that makes people
hesitate to give their children these
vaccines according to the recommended
schedule creates risk risk for the
children who don't get vaccine it and
risk for children who some of whom don't
have immune system and so they're
benefiting from the fact that the
community protection means the disease
doesn't get to them and so you know
getting the word out that yes vaccines
are great the safety data is very very
clear including any of these specific
concerns that's very important to our
foundation every country you know the
rumor mill often works against us there
so we'll have to see how that one
develops I would certainly use my voice
to try and avoid anything that
undermines confidence so that parents
are using vaccines fully did you talk to
him about the environment and global
warming and energy as well yes my
innovation message specifically include
an energy it happened to be the same
week that on Monday and Tuesday I
announced the breakthrough energy
venture group and then on that Tuesday
afternoon in December was when I sat sat
down with him so I explained you know
the US has great science here this is
where the market for these things going
to be it connects to less pollution it
connects to US jobs it connects to
security not needing the energy coming
from far away and you know Energy's very
primal stuff and there are a lot of
leads that are promising still at a
fairly risky stage but over the next
decade some of these breakthrough
approaches are going to to pay out and
u.s. research in the u.s. leadership on
this should be hard part of how it gets
solved and yet Donald Trump has called
global warming
a hoax and his choice to have the EPA
Scott Pruett is a climate change skeptic
at best what's going to happen to the
planet under the Trump administration
well we're in a period of uncertainty
about administration policies and you
know the range what might happen is
particularly high here I don't think
that these Rd and innovation budgets
will be substantially reduced I think
you know there's even a chance that they
might be increased and you know we
should go in and make that case to the
executive branch to the Congress Rd
generally has been a bipartisan thing
because in the IT space in the medical
space the us the benefits to ourselves
and the world and our economy have been
very very clear and you know so I'm
hopeful we can make a very strong case
their energy is actually harder it takes
more time to get a product but if you do
it's a very very big market and the
constraints of doing that in a clean way
or and it's more obvious all the time we
really not only do we need to do it we
need to do it with some sense of urgency
are you optimistic about a trump
presidency at this point well I know
that historically our foundation has had
great relations with all the
administrations you know Clinton
administration did a lot of outreach the
greatest rise in US foreign aid was
under the Bush administration that's
where we got the aids initiative which
is called PEPFAR we got a malaria
initiative really a phenomenal time even
though in the early stages there there
was some uncertainty then of course
Obama although he had budget constraints
he believed in these things a lot of new
initiatives including in agriculture and
so hopefully the case whether its energy
or child back
the case of the the many benefits
helping countries so that they are
stable so these refugee problems that
have been troubling for Europe a little
less so for the US but even even so you
know a lot of controversy there these
things are why you know the future is
going to be better than the past and and
people really do look to the United
States you know so we'll be there you
know making the case and in most of
these things we our foundation is a co
funder so you know I can say that in
polio or HIV vaccine that I'm putting
our resources behind it in a very big
way and the US government would be the
the best partner for those efforts